---
title: 留学中の日記を供養する
date: 2022-12-3
category: Memoir
description: 一記事に収まるほどしか続かなかったのが情けない...
ogp: mem-service
---

2021年の9月から2022年の6月にかけてしていたアメリカ留学中の日記を供養しようと思う．正確に言うと日記というより自分の英語力に関する愚痴の肥溜めかもしれない．良い気分になった時は大抵日記なんて書かずに寝てしまうので，何か自分の英語力に関して嫌なことがあった時，たとえば「3ヶ月も経ってるのに進歩してない...」みたいなストレスを文章に起こしたものが溜まったのが以下の文章である．

主な登場人物・団体を紹介しておくと
- BadgerBOTS...僕が所属していたロボットチーム
- Amy...BadgerBOTSの一員．最初に僕に話しかけてくれた
- AntonとDaniel...ドイツからの留学生で僕の親友．英語が化け物みたいに上手い

## Nov.23 2021
I got really depressed. This depression is probably the most serious one I've ever got. Today I talked to Amy, who was on BadgerBOTS. She said "I like the freckles on your face!". Since I have no idea what freckles meant, I told her that I was a foreign exchange student and I didn't know what that meant. I was already feeling depressed at this point because I didn't expect to use such an excuse 3 months after I came to this country. And what worse is I made pretty awkward conversation afterwards even though she tried so hard to make the conversation hyped up. Now I'm just deadly depressed and feeling sorry about what I did. That could have been more fun if I were Anton or Daniel. They would make it way more exciting and probably make the relationship closer than we are now. The only good thing is at least she didn't give up keeping the conversation and tried to give me some topics because obviously I don't have any freckles at all.

There were some good things today though. I got tardy in the 2nd period in a culinary class since I was in an auditorium, which was totally opposite from a culinary classroom, in the 1st period and I needed to go to the bathroom between the class. As soon as I got in the class, Brenda, Katja and Elodie, who were at my table, cheered to me. Words can't explain my feeling at the time. I felt like I was in their community even though my english confused them on a regular basis. I was speechlessly happy that I had the place to be and that someone was waiting for me. I didn't express that feeling to them because I didn't come up with any idea of how to express that feeling either physically or verbally. I was just so happy about it.

I know the reason of why my english is still terrible as fuck even 3 months has passed. That's because I've been watching Japanese YouTube video too much, and reading too many articles in Japanese instead of reading them in English. I wasn't supposed to do those things, which would definitely prevent learning English and which the staffs on my exchange program told me not to do no matter what happened, but I was so tired that I couldn't help myself doing those. It's just like vicious circle. Starting avoiding English because it depress me makes my English worse.

## Nov.24 2021
Sadly, it's not really hard to find depressing moments in my exchange life. I went to USPS office to pick up the care package from my parents in Japan. I was kind of feeling good at the time because I woke up at 8 and drank Maccha Latte at Starbucks (Sounds like an ideal lifestyle isn't it?). However, as soon as the USPS staff started talking, I felt so depressed because I couldn't catch what she said almost at all. I only caught the words "Device", "Photo ID" and "Push". I could probably have caught them even if I had been here for less than a month. Although I managed to guess what I had to do from the situation and the things around me at the time, that wasn't what I was supposed to do after being here for 3 months. I should have completely understood what she wanted me to do, and done that.

I made an excuse to myself that her accent was tricky, probably was Spanish accent. That was hopelessly sad anyway though.

From tomorrow, I and my host family are going to Chicago to see my host grandparents. I will meet Sam, who is my host brother and has been staying in NewYork for college, for the first time. I hope I can get through a hardship that I have to communicate with him well. At least it must be better than we first talked on Zoom. Otherwise it'll be totally proved that my English skill hasn't been improving since I came here.

## Nov.28 2021
Depression never comes off no matter where I am at. Today I walked to a coffee shop to enjoy the last morning in Chicago. It's been pretty nice weather and nice temperature all day long while we stayed here. I successfully left Harry in Carla's house since I didn't need any other animals than myself to enjoy a cup of coffee. Getting in the shop, I ordered a small cappuccino. I'm kind of used to ordering something at a register since I finally realized that I didn't have to listen to anything the staffs said. Most of them will greet first, and then say something like "How can I help you?". This means even if I miss everything they said, it will make sense to suddenly say "Can I have a small size of coffee?". And they will ask me like "Anything else?" or make sure what I ordered afterwards. Again, I don't have to listen to it carefully since I can just say "Yeah...I'm(or it's) OK." to every question they ask me. Doing so, I sat at a table with my cappuccino. A few minutes after I sat there, a staff showed up to me saying something quickly. I was totally zoned out looking out the window at the time, so I didn't catch any words he said at all. I was sorry about what I just did right after I unconsciously answered like "Oh, yes." to him. That was not what I should have done as an exchange student. I should have asked him to say again. Sure enough, he showed up to me again and asked what I want. Probably he asked me whether I want to order something or not at the first time. I managed to tell him that I wasn't gonna order anything, and he went back with confusion on his face.

I felt a huge depression on the way back home. Depression always comes a while after the cause happened, and that depression was definitely not from dripping the cappuccino onto my white hoodie. Even 3 months has passed, I still ordered a drink without any decent conversation, and say randomly yes to the question I couldn't even follow. What a shame on me.

## Nov.29 2021
I kind of figured out the problem of my listening English. As soon as I could catch the main topic of the conversation, I unconsciously stop paying attention to people speaking. This is probably because of my easily getting distracted. I also stop listening if I say something significant in their conversation even once. my brain is satisfied with that amount of contribution. Unless I completely inhibit this distraction, my English skill won't improve.

Today, I was in the line for PizzaPit, waiting for the pizza and Anton and Daniel. Then girls waiting in front of me suddenly call me "Virgin boy" in their conversation. I'm pretty sure they were talking about me because they laughed at me when I got out the line giving up the pizza. It's not weird to happen because there can be some stupid bitches here as well as in Japan, and I was talking with Daniel in broken English. They wouldn't have called me like that if I cut in the line yelling, or if I was talking on the phone with a loud voice. They probably assumed my virginity from my standing quietly looking down my phone, and speaking English awkwardly. That was pretty disgusting, but also significant for me in a sense that the behavior and appearance really matter in this country.

## Dec.13 2021
When I found someone being racist was 3 months after I came here. Surprisingly, that someone was me. I unconsciously thought most of black people don’t take classes seriously because every single trouble that happens in my school was caused by black people. I’ve never seen trouble caused by white people. This fact biased me so much that I was surprised that Jack, who is my friend from South Africa, gets actively involved in the earth science class. I’m not supposed to be surprised by that unless I’m racist because I’ve seen a bunch of people being dedicated to a class. Then I realized how racist I was at that point. My attitude to him was probably different from that to students from other races because I thought he really liked earth science even though he was just contributing to the class to get a good grade as well as others. I wasn’t being offensive to him, but judging him on his race and talking to him differently are definitely what racist would do. I figured out the process of people being racist. It wasn’t what I thought it would be, and wasn’t as malicious as I expected.

# Mar.29 2022
Speaking English on a regular basis for 7 months straight, I still struggle with constructing a long sentence. The Wisconsin Regional on BadgerBOTS last week was significant. I don’t struggle with following what people say these days, unless they have thick-ass accent or speak quickly, but as soon as I start telling someone a story, my grammar always goes crazy. It’s funny that I knew my english was broken yet I just couldn’t help myself choosing wrong words every single time. Although I didn’t have any problem on communication since everyone on BadgerBOTS knows I’m an exchange student and they were whom I was mostly talking to, it wouldn’t have gone well if I were to communicate with our alliances at the competition.

Every time I start questioning the improvement of my English skills throughout this exchange year, I try to conclude that improvement is just invisible. I tell myself the moment I’m satisfied with my English will never come. It might be true, or might be just an excuse for not making efforts to push myself more than now. I don’t know about how other Japanese exchange students are doing — I don’t even wanna know, but I’m just gonna put learning English as my first priority, and try not to get carried away.

## Apr.3 2022
I was in La Cross for the Seven Rivers Regional until yesterday. Although I went to the pit sometimes and wrote a little bit of code, I was mostly at the audience seats talking with team members. I found Amy and Riley particularly speak fast English, and their English were really hard for me to catch. Since I was so fortunate that I stayed in the same room as Riley, and spent most of the time during competition with Amy, I had many chances to train my ears for their English. I asked them to say something again so many times (like, many many times), which made conversation less smooth, but they were nice enough to deal with it.

The competition went very well. We went up to 8th place once , and ended up 14th. We got picked by a team that had a traversal climber and good shooting system. Even though our alliance was the 6th seeded, we proceeded to semifinal beating up the 3rd seeded alliance. We won over the 2nd seeded alliance once, but lost twice afterwards. Our 2022 season was over, which means there will be no more competition for me. Although I have struggled with both English and understanding the code many times, the time I spent on BadgerBOTS is definitely the best part of my exchange year. I really wish I could stay here longer so that I can be on the team longer.

## Apr.7 2022
I’m missing motivation to go to school. It might be because I still don’t have a group that accepts me, or many people, if not most, to whom I was talking during BadgerBOTS are not at West such as Aidan, Amy and Riley. Although the former is a huge problem as an exchange student, the latter sounds more correct to me. I guess BadgerBOTS was the place where I speak the most, no matter whether about robotics or about other random topics. Without BadgerBOTS, my school life here is but a tedious repetition. 

These days I found myself still trying to gloss over my sorry-ass English by laughing, which I’ve been doing since I came here. Though I can listen to English better than before, the way I start the conversation is as awkward as when I first spoke English. It is, after all, not on my English but on my communication skill.

## June.07 2022
I went to the movie with Daniel, Anton and Joey today, which is gonna be the last time we hang out together. Though their racist jokes were terrible and often pissed me off, I nailed this year because of them. We also talked about meeting up either in Germany or in Japan. We aren’t sure when, but someday, we will have shitty chat again.

ネガティブなことばかり書いているので自分でも不安にはなるが，総じて留学は上手くいったと思う．英語力は悩みながらも，というか悩み続けたおかげでだいぶ成長したし，アメリカ人の言動の根幹にある思想とかモチベみたいなものも見えた．帰国してもう6ヶ月だが，未だに現地の友達とは連絡を取っているし今でも関係は変わっていない．大学に入ったら時間を見つけてヨーロッパに行こうと思う．
